README.md, before:

# Vale Docs [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ValeLint/docs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ValeLint/docs)

This repository houses the documentation and website source for [Vale](https://github.com/ValeLint/vale). We write our documentation in [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/) and use [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/) to build it.

### Running Locally

You'll need [Python 2.7+](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed. Then, just enter the following commands:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ValeLint/docs.git
$ cd docs
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ mkdocs serve
```

### Linting

We follow 18F's [content guidelines](https://pages.18f.gov/content-guide/) with the following additions:

<!-- vale off -->

- Use standard American English spelling (e.g., "color" instead of "colour").
- Capitalize "Vale" unless specifically referring to the binary (in which case it should be in a code span&mdash;i.e., `vale`).
- Use correct tech terminology: JavaScript, HTML, etc.

We also use [`awesome_bot`](https://github.com/dkhamsing/awesome_bot) to check that all our links are working.

### Adding a Style

Have a style to share? Great&mdash;we'd love to include it in our list! Just follow this step-by-step process:

- Open the [`data/styles.yml` file](https://github.com/ValeLint/docs/blob/master/data/styles.yml) on GitHub.
- Press the Pencil Icon in the upper Right Corner of the Code Preview.
- Add your style to the correct category, following this structure:

    ```yml
    - title: {...}
      summary: {...}
      url: {source link}
      download: {.zip download link}
    ```

- Save your commit and submit a pull request.

Commit message:

update Usage Examples
Also changes heading style from sentence to title.

README.md, after:

# Vale Docs [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ValeLint/docs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ValeLint/docs)

This repository houses the documentation and website source for [Vale](https://github.com/ValeLint/vale). We write our documentation in [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/) and use [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/) to build it.

### Running Locally

You'll need [Python 2.7+](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed. Then, just enter the following commands:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ValeLint/docs.git
$ cd docs
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ mkdocs serve
```

### Linting

We follow 18F's [content guidelines](https://pages.18f.gov/content-guide/) with the following additions and changes:

<!-- vale off -->

- Use standard American English spelling (e.g., "color" instead of "colour").
- Capitalize "Vale" unless specifically referring to the binary (in which case it should be in a code span&mdash;i.e., `vale`).
- Use correct tech terminology: JavaScript, HTML, etc.
- Use title case for headings.

We also use [`awesome_bot`](https://github.com/dkhamsing/awesome_bot) to check that all our links are working.

### Adding a Style

Have a style to share? Great&mdash;we'd love to include it in our list! Just follow this step-by-step process:

- Open the [`data/styles.yml` file](https://github.com/ValeLint/docs/blob/master/data/styles.yml) on GitHub.
- Press the Pencil Icon in the upper Right Corner of the Code Preview.
- Add your style to the correct category, following this structure:

    ```yml
    - title: {...}
      summary: {...}
      url: {source link}
      download: {.zip download link}
    ```

- Save your commit and submit a pull request.
